If he had to take four years of his blog's writings and distill them down to a potent spirit:

1) Get rid of needless possessions and needless commitments. Protect your freedom.

2) Learn to find enjoyability of those "in-between" moments, because they make up 98% of your life. Do one thing at a time and do them on purpose. Regularly do things that feel out-of-character.

3) Cultivate a sense of solidarity with all humans. Regard typicalness as a red flag that you may be settling. Stop blaming others. Don't limit your compassion to others who cause no harm (because there are none). 

4) Know your addictions. Agree to let the moment feel like whatever it feels like. Observe the play of desire and attachment in your life.

5) Now and then, ask yourself often what your mind is up to. Let bad moods come and go and don't trust what they tell you about the big picture. 

6) Think a lot about what you want and only sparingly about what you don't want. When bad things happen, go do the next thing.

7) Regard your mind as an advisor -- an intelligent but often frantic and short-sighted one -- instead of a boss. Don't take your thoughts so seriously. Keep your life clean and your mind will clear up.

8) Don't take anyone's word but your own, when it comes to who you really are. Never mistake your self-image for your self. Let yourself become a different person over time. Be willing to let go of any belief, if something else starts to make more sense to you. Put your personal experience first, and the data second, generally. 

9) Experiment with mindfulness and meditation. To find peace in any moment, let your personal interests die. Live in the first person, not the third person like most people do.

10) Get rich, but define wealth as the capacity to create quality of life, rather than as money specifically. Learn to focus on the concrete things, and ignore most of the abstract things. Don't spend your life doing what you don't love -- to love yourself means to work for yourself, not to pleasure yourself. 

11) Read.

12) Be fair and generous to others, but don't be afraid to think of your life as the Greatest Story Ever Told. Let things change when they're ready to change. Let people go when they're ready to go. When the universe speaks to you, listen.

13) Pretend this is the first moment of your life.